Add documentation for AdminNetworkPolicy support in Antrea (#5270)
antrea-io/antrea: docs/admin-network-policy.md

# AdminNetworkPolicy API Support in Antrea

## Table of Contents

<!-- toc -->
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Usage](#usage)
  - [Sample specs for AdminNetworkPolicy and BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy](#sample-specs-for-adminnetworkpolicy-and-baselineadminnetworkpolicy)
  - [Relationship with Antrea-native Policies](#relationship-with-antrea-native-policies)
<!-- /toc -->

## Introduction

> Kubernetes provides the NetworkPolicy API as a simple way for developers to control traffic flow to their applications.

Reviewer: to -> of

flow -> flows

While NetworkPolicy is embraced throughout the community, it was designed for developers instead of cluster admins.
Therefore, traits such as the lack of explicit deny rules make securing workloads at the cluster level difficult.
The Network Policy API working group (subproject of Kubernetes SIG-Network) has then introduced the
[AdminNetworkPolicy APIs](https://network-policy-api.sigs.k8s.io/api-overview/) which aims to solve the cluster admin
policy usecases.

Starting with v1.13, Antrea supports the `AdminNetworkPolicy` and `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` API types, except for

> advanced namespace selection mechanisms (namely `sameLabels` and `notSameLabels` rules) which are still in experimental

Reviewer: namespace -> Namespace

Please change all.

Reviewer: the experimental phase

phase and not required as part of conformance.

## Prerequisites

AdminNetworkPolicy was introduced in v1.13 as an alpha feature and is disabled by default. A feature gate,

> `AdminNetworkPolicy`, must be enabled in antrea-controller.conf in the `antrea-config` ConfigMap when Antrea is deployed:

Reviewer 2: Since there is a new feature gate added, I think you should also update the doc `feature-gates.md`.
I suppose this feature depends on `AntreaPolicy` feature? maybe add a few words about the dependency.

Author: `feature-gates.md` in updated in the PR of AdminNP implementation. Updated the `AntreaPolicy` featureGate dependency.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: antrea-config
  namespace: kube-system
data:
  antrea-controller.conf: |

>     ...

Reviewer: @tnqn found out some formatting issue of "..." in antrea.io documentation pages. I think the conclusion is we should not add "..." in examples.

Author: Done. Thanks for the reminder

```yaml
apiVersion: policy.networking.k8s.io/v1alpha1
kind: AdminNetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: cluster-wide-deny-example
spec:
  priority: 10
  subject:
    namespaces:
      matchLabels:
        kubernetes.io/metadata.name: sensitive-ns
  ingress:
    - action: Deny
      from:
      - namespaces:
         namespaceSelector: {}
      name: select-all-deny-all
```

```yaml
apiVersion: policy.networking.k8s.io/v1alpha1
kind: BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: default
spec:
  subject:
    namespaces: {}
  ingress:
    - action: Deny   # zero-trust cluster default security posture
      from:
      - namespaces:
          namespaceSelector: {}
```

Note that for a single cluster, the `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` resource is supported as a singleton with the name of
`default`.

### Relationship with Antrea-native Policies

AdminNetworkPolicy API objects and Antrea-native policies can co-exist with each other in the same cluster.

AdminNetworkPolicy and BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy API types provide K8s upstream supported, cluster admin facing
guardrails that are portable and CNI-agnostic. AntreaClusterNetworkPolicy and AntreaNetworkPolicy on the other hand,

> are designed for the same persona but provide a richer feature set, including FQDN policies, nodeSelectors and L7 rules.

Reviewer: the same persona -> similar use cases?

See the [Antrea-native policy doc](antrea-network-policy.md) and [L7 policy doc](antrea-network-policy.md) for details.

> Both the AdminNetworkPolicy object and Antrea-native policy objects uses a `priority` field to determine its precedence

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Both the AdminNetworkPolicy objects and Antrea-native policy objects use a `priority` field to determine its precedence
```

Author: Actually this is intended. The `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` object does not have a priority field, since it is intended to be a singleton

Reviewer: We should change "uses" to "use".

compared to other policy objects. The following diagram describes the relative precedence between the AdminNetworkPolicy
API types and Antrea-native policy types:

```text
Antrea-native Policies (tier != baseline) > 
AdminNetworkPolicies                      >
K8s NetworkPolicies                       >
Antrea-native Policies (tier == baseline) >
BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy
```

In other words, any Antrea-native policies that are not created in the `baseline` tier will have higher precedence over,

> and thus evaluated before, all AdminNetworkPolicies at any `priority`. Effectively, the AdminNetworkPolicy resources are

Reviewer: You used "objects" earlier but "resources" in this paragraph. Let us use the same term.

Therefore, traits such as the lack of explicit deny rules make securing workloads at the cluster level difficult.
The Network Policy API working group (subproject of Kubernetes SIG-Network) has then introduced the
[AdminNetworkPolicy APIs](https://network-policy-api.sigs.k8s.io/api-overview/) which aims to solve the cluster admin
policy usecases.

Starting with v1.13, Antrea supports the `AdminNetworkPolicy` and `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` API types, except for
advanced Namespace selection mechanisms (namely `sameLabels` and `notSameLabels` rules) which are still in the
experimental phase and not required as part of conformance.

## Prerequisites

AdminNetworkPolicy was introduced in v1.13 as an alpha feature and is disabled by default. A feature gate,
`AdminNetworkPolicy`, must be enabled in antrea-controller.conf in the `antrea-config` ConfigMap when Antrea is deployed:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: antrea-config
  namespace: kube-system
data:
  antrea-controller.conf: |
    featureGates:
      AdminNetworkPolicy: true
```

Note that the `AdminNetworkPolicy` feature also requires the `AntreaPolicy` featureGate to be set to true, which is

> enabled by default since v1.0.

Reviewer: "Antrea v1.0" to be clear

Author: Done
